# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Broad Category 1

### Criteria

<table><thead><tr><th width="160">Criterion</th><th>Description</th><th width="174">When was it achieved</th><th>How successful</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Basic movement controls</td><td>Cycle 2</td><td>Fully</td></tr><tr><td>2 </td><td>Power ups</td><td>Cycle 6</td><td>Partial</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Boss</td><td>Cycle 4</td><td>Partial</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Enemies</td><td>Cycle 3</td><td>Partial</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Check points</td><td>Not implemented</td><td>Not implemented</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Varying level design </td><td>Cycle 1</td><td>Fully</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Scoring system</td><td>Not implemented</td><td>Not implemented</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Menu system</td><td>Cycle 8</td><td>Partial</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>Age rating</td><td>Useablity testing</td><td>Fully</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Ensure the game runs smoothly</td><td>Useablity testing</td><td>Fully</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Criterion 1



For basic movement controls I implemented movement for left and right using the respective arrow keys, as well as the space bar for jumping/ moving vertically. The use of the other arrow keys was deemed unnecessary. However with more time/ sufficient requests from testing, i could have implemented other key binds for accessibility reasons, such as using the up arrow to jump as well or even custom key binds accessible through the menu.&#x20;

### Criterion 2



For Power ups, I have several ideas in mind but the difficulty in executing them led me to narrow it down to just two, however, a bug in my game allows players to stick to walls for a short period of time and reset their jumps this inveterately added a 3rd power up this being he double jump, thus I decided to add this as a feature, although the wall jump is very difficult to execute in its current state if I were to spend more time developing this I would add a tutorial as well as decrease the size of the floor tiles to make the double jump easier to perform. For the other indented power-ups, there are also bugs, which although they are repeatable, are not game-breaking. To go into more detail and provide an example, the biggity power-up would cause the player to fall through the floor in some cases this is avoidable if the power-up is placed in the air instead of the floor. And finally, the double jump feature works as intended.

### Criterion 3

Description of success

The original idea for my game's enemies was to have several bosses all taking advantage of a player using a certain power-up to be able to defeat them. however as time progressed, I realised this level of complexity was not only unnecessary for acceding a top grade but was well out of my skill level, thus I decided to implement an AI for the final boss that would constantly work out the position of the player and chase them in order to make contact with them and playing a loss scene. When originally implementing this concept the boss just moved left and write following the player as the game is in 2D making it seem virality identical to a regular enemy by the time the player interacted with the boss. This was discovered during testing and the way I found the right values was during testing, after this process the AI was much more apparent and noticeable to the players

### Criterion 4

Description of success

For enemy design, I had many more ideas for implementation but I decided to keep it simple, using them as a key obstacle to increase the difficulty of the level the reason for this is due to time and efficiency making enemies more complex wouldn't generate any more marks. The enemies were also a key part of making the game more engaging and this is where the majority of the difficulty was added as they were the most common enemy. As this was the case it made the adjusting of difficulty much easier as I could change the speed and size individually to fit each level, this would be a lot more difficult if all the enemies were different with their own traits.&#x20;

### Criterion 5

Originally I planned on implementing checkpoints however, I felt that they made the game too easy. and with only a small amount of levels was untimalty deemed unnecessary. The original play was to have checkpoints after each level.

### Criterion 6

Varying Level design, This is a key element in making an engaging game, without implementing this the game becomes stale, this is also helpful for adding different game mechanics as you can make levels tailored for them to best display and utilize such mechanics for example a level with large vertical wall to encourage players to use the wall climb mechanic&#x20;

### Criterion 7

The scoring system works by the player earning points from getting powerups as well as defeating enemies, and the final score is displayed at the end of the once completed, I originally thought of adding a timer that would add multiple to the score but in the end was deemed unnecessary.

### Criterion 8

I added a pause menu allowing players to pause the game and unpause whenever they desire. This gives players time to look at obstacles take breaks while they play and save progress.

### Criterion 9

An appropriate age rating was achieved throughout the game by using a cartoony art style and the lack of any graphic content, the reason for this is to ensure the game can be enjoyed by all audiences to maximise the player base. since the game is also fairly easy it, the gameplay caters to a younger audience with simple controls and a clear and easy objective. &#x20;

















&#x20;







